---
id: '06543569'
title: 'Boolean Type'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-16T14:07:37'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Basic Types'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will learn about the TypeScript boolean data type and how to use the boolean keyword.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Introduction to the TypeScript boolean</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The TypeScript boolean type has two values: true and false. The boolean type is one of the primitive types in TypeScript.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>Declaring boolean variables</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In TypeScript, you can declare a boolean variable using the boolean keyword. For example:</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">let pending: boolean;
pending = true;
// after a while
// ..
pending = false;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>Boolean operator</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>To manipulate boolean values, you use the boolean operators. TypeScript supports common boolean operators:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><figure class="table"><table><thead><tr><th>Operator</th><th>Meaning</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>&amp;&amp;</td><td>Logical AND operator</td></tr><tr><td>||</td><td>Logical OR operator</td></tr><tr><td>!</td><td>Logical NOT operator</td></tr></tbody></table></figure><p>&nbsp;</p><p>For example:</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">// NOT operator
const pending: boolean = true;
const notPending = !pending; // false
console.log(result); // false

const hasError: boolean = false;
const completed: boolean = true;

// AND operator
let result = completed &amp;&amp; hasError; 
console.log(result); // false

// OR operator
result = completed || hasError; 
console.log(result); // true</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>Type annotations for boolean</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>As seen in previous examples, you can use the boolean keyword to annotate the types for the boolean variables:</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">let completed: boolean = true;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>However, TypeScript often infers types automatically, so type annotations may not be necessary:</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">let completed = true;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Like a variable, you can annotate boolean parameters or return the type of a function using the boolean keyword:</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">function changeStatus(status: boolean): boolean {
   //...
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>Boolean Type</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>JavaScript has the Boolean type that refers to the non-primitive boxed object. The Boolean type has the letter B in uppercase, which is different from the boolean type.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>It’s a good practice to avoid using the Boolean type.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Summary</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>TypeScript boolean type has two values true and false.</li><li>Use the boolean keyword to declare boolean variables.</li><li>Do not use Boolean type unless you have a good reason to do so.</li></ul>