---
id: '10467691'
title: 'Intersection Types'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-22T16:31:32'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Advanced Types'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will learn about the TypeScript intersection types to create a new type by combining multiple existing types.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Introduction to TypeScript Intersection types</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>An intersection type creates a new type by combining multiple existing types. The new type has all features of the existing types.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>To combine types, you use the &amp; operator as follows:</p><pre><code class="typescript">type typeAB = typeA &amp; typeB;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The typeAB will have all properties from both typeA and typeB.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Note that the union type uses the | operator that defines a variable that can hold a value of either typeA or typeB</p><pre><code class="typescript">let varName = typeA | typeB; // union type</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Suppose that you have three interfaces: BusinessPartner, Identity, and Contact.</p><pre><code class="typescript">interface BusinessPartner {
    name: string;
    credit: number;
}

interface Identity {
    id: number;
    name: string;
}

interface Contact {
    email: string;
    phone: string;
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following defines two intersection types:</p><pre><code class="typescript">type Employee = Identity &amp; Contact;
type Customer = BusinessPartner &amp; Contact;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The Employee type contains all properties of the Identity and Contact type:</p><pre><code class="typescript">type Employee = Identity &amp; Contact;

let e: Employee = {
    id: 100,
    name: 'John Doe',
    email: 'john.doe@example.com',
    phone: '(408)-897-5684'
};</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>And the Customer type contains all properties of the BusinessPartner and Contact type:</p><pre><code class="typescript">type Customer = BusinessPartner &amp; Contact;

let c: Customer = {
    name: 'ABC Inc.',
    credit: 1000000,
    email: 'sales@abcinc.com',
    phone: '(408)-897-5735'
};</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Later, if you want to implement employee sales, you can create a new intersection type that contains all properties of Identity, Contact, and BusinessPartner types:</p><pre><code class="typescript">type Employee = Identity &amp; BusinessPartner &amp; Contact;

let e: Employee = {
    id: 100,
    name: 'John Doe',
    email: 'john.doe@example.com',
    phone: '(408)-897-5684',
    credit: 1000
};</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Notice both BusinessPartner and Identity have the property name with the same type. If they do not, then you will have an error.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Type Order</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>When you intersect types, the order of the types doesn’t matter. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">type typeAB = typeA &amp; typeB;
type typeBA = typeB &amp; typeA;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, typeAB and typeBA have the same properties.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Summary</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>An intersection type combines two or more types to create a new type that has all properties of the existing types.</li><li>The type order is not important when you combine types.</li></ul>