---
id: '15628570'
title: 'Generic Classes'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-23T11:01:21'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Generics'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will learn how to develop TypeScript generic classes.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Introduction to TypeScript generic classes</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>A generic class has a generic type parameter list in angle brackets &lt;&gt; that follows the name of the class:</p><pre><code class="typescript">class className&lt;T&gt;{
    //... 
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>TypeScript allows you to have multiple generic types in the type parameter list. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">class className&lt;K,T&gt;{
    //...
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The generic constraints are also applied to the generic types in the class:</p><pre><code class="typescript">class className&lt;T extends TypeA&gt;{
    //...
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Placing the type parameter on the class allows you to develop methods and properties that work with the same type.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>TypeScript generic classes example</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, we will develop a generic Stack class.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>A stack is a data structure that works on the last-in-first-out (or LIFO) principle. It means that the first element you place into the stack is the last element you can get from the stack.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Typically, a stack has a size. By default, it is empty. The stack has two main operations:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Push: push an element into the stack.</li><li>Pop: pop an element from the stack.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following shows a complete generic Stack class called Stack&lt;T&gt;:</p><pre><code class="typescript">class Stack&lt;T&gt; {
    private elements: T[] = [];

    constructor(private size: number) {
    }
    isEmpty(): boolean {
        return this.elements.length === 0;
    }
    isFull(): boolean {
        return this.elements.length === this.size;
    }
    push(element: T): void {
        if (this.elements.length === this.size) {
            throw new Error('The stack is overflow!');
        }
        this.elements.push(element);

    }
    pop(): T {
        if (this.elements.length == 0) {
            throw new Error('The stack is empty!');
        }
        return this.elements.pop();
    }
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following creates a new stack of numbers:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let numbers = new Stack&lt;number&gt;(5);</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>This function returns a random number between two numbers, low and high:</p><pre><code class="typescript">function randBetween(low: number, high: number): number {
    return Math.floor(Math.random() * (high - low + 1) + low);
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Now, you can use the randBetween() function to generate random numbers for pushing into the numbers stack:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let numbers = new Stack&lt;number&gt;(5);

while (!numbers.isFull()) {
    let n = randBetween(1, 10);
    console.log(`Push ${n} into the stack.`)
    numbers.push(n);
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Output:</p><blockquote><p>Push 3 into the stack.<br>Push 2 into the stack.&nbsp;<br>Push 1 into the stack.&nbsp;<br>Push 8 into the stack.&nbsp;<br>Push 9 into the stack.&nbsp;</p></blockquote><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following shows how to pop elements from the stack until it is empty:</p><pre><code class="typescript">while (!numbers.isEmpty()) {
    let n = numbers.pop();
    console.log(`Pop ${n} from the stack.`);
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Output:</p><blockquote><p>Pop 9 from the stack.<br>Pop 8 from the stack.<br>Pop 1 from the stack.<br>Pop 2 from the stack.<br>Pop 3 from the stack.</p></blockquote><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Similarly, you can create a stack of strings. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let words = 'The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog'.split(' ');

let wordStack = new Stack&lt;string&gt;(words.length);

// push words into the stack
words.forEach(word =&gt; wordStack.push(word));

// pop words from the stack
while (!wordStack.isEmpty()) {
    console.log(wordStack.pop());
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>How it works:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>First, split the sentences into words.</li><li>Second, create a stack whose size is equal to the number of words in the words array.</li><li>Third, push elements of the words array into the stack.</li><li>Finally, pop words from the stack until it is empty.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this tutorial, you have learned how to develop generic classes in TypeScript.</p>