---
id: '21330095'
title: 'Readonly Properties'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-22T13:55:24'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Classes'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will learn how to use the TypeScript readonly access modifier to mark class properties as immutable properties.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>TypeScript provides the readonly modifier that allows you to mark the properties of a class immutable. The assignment to a readonly property can only occur in one of two places:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>In the property declaration.</li><li>In the constructor of the same class.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p>To mark a property as immutable, you use the readonly keyword. The following shows how to declare a readonly property in the Person class:</p><pre><code class="typescript">class Person {
    readonly birthDate: Date;

    constructor(birthDate: Date) {
        this.birthDate = birthDate;
    }
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, the birthdate property is a readonly property that is initialized in the constructor of the Person class.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following attempts to reassign the birthDate property that results in an error:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let person = new Person(new Date(1990, 12, 25));
person.birthDate = new Date(1991, 12, 25); // Compile error</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Error:</p><pre><code>Cannot assign to 'birthDate' because it is a read-only property.</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Like other access modifiers, you can consolidate the declaration and initialization of a readonly property in the constructor like this:</p><pre><code class="typescript">class Person {
    constructor(readonly birthDate: Date) {
    }
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>readonly vs. const</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><figure class="table"><table><thead><tr><th>&nbsp;</th><th>readonly</th><th>const</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Use for</td><td>Class properties</td><td>Variables</td></tr><tr><td>Initialization</td><td>In the declaration or in the constructor of the same class</td><td>In the declaration or in the constructor of the same class</td></tr></tbody></table></figure><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Summary</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Use the readonly access modifier to mark a class property as immutable.</li><li>A readonly property must be initialized as a part of the declaration or in the constructor of the same class.</li></ul>