---
id: '21704528'
title: 'Extend Interface'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-22T16:09:17'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Interfaces'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will learn how to extend an interface that allows you to copy the properties and methods of one interface to another.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Interfaces extending one interface</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Suppose that you have an interface called Mailable that contains two methods called send() and queue() as follows:</p><pre><code class="typescript">interface Mailable {
    send(email: string): boolean
    queue(email: string): boolean
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>And you have many classes that already implemented the Mailable interface.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Now, you want to add a new method to the Mailable interface that sends an email later like this:</p><pre><code class="typescript">later(email: string, after: number): void</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>However, adding the later() method to the Mailable interface would break the current code.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>To avoid this, you can create a new interface that extends the Mailable interface:</p><pre><code class="typescript">interface FutureMailable extends Mailable {
    later(email: string, after: number): boolean
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>To extend an interface, you use the extends keyword with the following syntax:</p><pre><code class="typescript">interface A {
    a(): void
}

interface B extends A {
    b(): void
}
</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The interface B extends the interface A, which then has both methods a() and b() .</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Like classes, the FutureMailable interface inherits the send() and queue() methods from the Mailable interface.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following shows how to implement the FutureMailable interface:</p><pre><code class="typescript">class Mail implements FutureMailable {
    later(email: string, after: number): boolean {
        console.log(`Send email to ${email} in ${after} ms.`);
        return true;
    }
    send(email: string): boolean {
        console.log(`Sent email to ${email} after ${after} ms. `);
        return true;
    }
    queue(email: string): boolean {
        console.log(`Queue an email to ${email}.`);
        return true;
    }
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Interfaces extending multiple interfaces</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>An interface can extend multiple interfaces, creating a combination of all the interfaces. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">interface C {
    c(): void
}

interface D extends B, C {
    d(): void
}
</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, the interface D extends the interfaces B and C. So D has all the methods of B and C interfaces, which are a(), b(), and c() methods.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Interfaces extending classes</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>TypeScript allows an interface to extend a class. In this case, the interface inherits the properties and methods of the class. Also, the interface can inherit the private and protected members of the class, not just the public members.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>It means that when an interface extends a class with private or protected members, the interface can only be implemented by that class or subclasses of that class from which the interface extends.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>By doing this, you restrict the usage of the interface to only classes or subclasses of the class from which the interface extends. If you attempt to implement the interface from a class that is not a subclass of the class that the interface inherited, you’ll get an error. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">class Control {
    private state: boolean;
}

interface StatefulControl extends Control {
    enable(): void
}

class Button extends Control implements StatefulControl {
    enable() { }
}
class TextBox extends Control implements StatefulControl {
    enable() { }
}
class Label extends Control { }


// Error: cannot implement
class Chart implements StatefulControl {
    enable() { }

}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Summary</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>An interface can extend one or multiple existing interfaces.</li></ul><p>An interface also can extend a class. If the class contains private or protected members, the interface can only be implemented by the class or subclasses of that class.</p>