---
id: '32395564'
title: 'Functions'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-22T11:13:49'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Functions'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will learn about the TypeScript functions and how to use type annotations to enforce the type checks for functions.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Introduction to TypeScript functions</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>TypeScript functions are the building blocks of readable, maintainable, and reusable code.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Like JavaScript, you use the function keyword to declare a function in TypeScript:</p><pre><code class="typescript">function name(parameter: type, parameter:type,...): returnType {
   // do something
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Unlike JavaScript, TypeScript allows you to use type annotations in parameters and return the value of a function.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Let’s see the following add() function example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">function add(a: number, b: number): number {
    return a + b;
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, the add() function accepts two parameters with the number type.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>When you call the add() function, the TypeScript compiler will check each argument passed to the function to ensure that they are numbers.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In the add() function example, you can only pass numbers into it, not the values of other types.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following code will result in an error because it passes two strings instead of two numbers into the add() function:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let sum = add('10', '20');</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Error:</p><blockquote><p>error TS2345: Argument of type '"10"' is not assignable to parameter of type 'number'</p></blockquote><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The types of function parameters are also available within the function body for type checking.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The : number after the parentheses indicate the return type. The add() function returns a value of the number type in this case.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>When a function has a return type, the TypeScript compiler checks every return statement against the return type to ensure that the return value is compatible with it.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>If a function does not return a value, you can use the void type as the return type. The void keyword indicates that the function doesn’t return any value. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">function echo(message: string): void {
    console.log(message.toUpperCase());
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The void prevents the code inside the function from returning a value and stops the calling code from assigning the result of the function to a variable.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>When you do not annotate the return type, TypeScript will try to infer an appropriate type. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">function add(a: number, b: number) {
    return a + b;
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, the TypeScript compiler tries to infer the return type of the add() function to the number type, which is expected.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>However, if a function has different branches that return different types, the TypeScript compiler may infer the union type or any type.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Therefore, it is important to add type annotations to a function as much as possible.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Summary</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Use type annotations for function parameters and return type to keep the calling code inline and ensure the type checking within the function body.</li></ul>