---
id: '40771341'
title: 'while'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-22T10:32:10'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Control Flow Statements'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will learn how to create a loop using the TypeScript while statement.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Introduction to the TypeScript while statement</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The while statement allows you to create a loop that executes a block of code as long as a condition is true.</p><pre><code class="typescript">while(condition) {
    // do something
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The while statement evaluates the condition before each loop iteration.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>If the condition evaluates to true, the while statement executes the code in the body surrounded by the curly braces ({}).</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>When the condition evaluates to false, the execution continues with the statement after the while statement.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Since the while statement evaluates the condition before its body is executed, a while loop is also called a pretest loop.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>To break the loop immaturely based on another condition, you use the if and break statements:</p><pre><code class="typescript">while(condition) {
    // do something
    // ...

    if(anotherCondition) 
        break;
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>If you want to run a loop a number of times, you should use the TypeScript for statement.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>TypeScript while statement examples</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Let’s take some examples of using the TypeScript while statement.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>TypeScript while: a simple example</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following example uses the while statement to output a number to the console as long as it is less than 5:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let counter = 0;

while (counter &lt; 5) {
    console.log(counter);
    counter++;
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Output:</p><blockquote><p>0<br>1<br>2<br>3<br>4</p></blockquote><p>&nbsp;</p><p>How it works:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>First, declare a counter variable and initialize it to zero.</li><li>Then, check if the counter is less than 5 before entering the loop. If it is, output the counter to the console and increment it by one.</li><li>Finally, repeat the above step as long as counter is less than 5.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>TypeScript while loop practical example</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Let’s say you have the following list element on an HTML document:</p><pre><code class="svelte">&lt;ul id="list"&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Item 1&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Item 2&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Item 3&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Item 4&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following example shows how to use the while statement to remove all &lt;li&gt; element of the &lt;ul&gt; element:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let list = document.querySelector('#list');

while (list.firstChild) {
    list.removeChild(list.firstChild);
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>How it works:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>First, select the &lt;ul&gt; element by its id using the querySelector() method.</li><li>Then, check if firstChild of the list is available and remove it. Once the first child node is removed, the next child node is automatically promoted as the first child node. Therefore, the while statement removes all child nodes of the list element.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Summary</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Use the TypeScript while statement to create a loop that will run as long as a condition is true.</li></ul>