---
id: '49172877'
title: 'Type Aliases'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-16T21:14:30'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Basic Types'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will learn how to define new names for types using type aliases.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Introduction to TypeScript type aliases</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In TypeScript, a type alias allows you to create a new name for an existing type.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Type aliases can be useful for:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Simplifying complex types.</li><li>Making code more readable.</li><li>Creating reusable types that can be used in many places in the codebase.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p>To define a type alias, you use the type keyword followed by the alias name and the type it represents.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Here’s the syntax for defining a type alias</p><pre><code>type alias = existingType;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The existing type can be any valid TypeScript type including primitive type, object type, union type, intersection type, and function type.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Type alias examples</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>1) Primitive types</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following example uses the type alias chars for the string type:</p><pre><code class="typescript">type Name: string;

let firstName: Name;
let lastName: Name;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, we create the Name as a type alias for the string type and use it to declare two variables firstName and lastName.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>2) Object types</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following example defines a type alias Person for an object that has two properties name and age:</p><pre><code class="typescript">type Person = {
  name: string;
  age: number;
};

let person: Person = {
  name: 'John',
  age: 25
};</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>3) Union Types</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following example shows how to define a type alias for the union type string | number:</p><pre><code class="typescript">type alphanumeric = string | number;

let input: alphanumeric;
input = 100; // valid
input = 'Hi'; // valid
input = false; // Compiler error</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>4) Intersection Types</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following example shows how to create a type alias for the intersection type Personal &amp; Contact:</p><pre><code class="typescript">type Personal = {
  name: string;
  age: number;
};

type Contact = {
  email: string;
  phone: string;
};

type Candidate = Personal &amp; Contact;

let candidate: Candidate = {
  name: "Joe",
  age: 25,
  email: "joe@example.com",
  phone: "(408)-123-4567"
};</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Summary</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Use type aliases to define new names for existing types.</li></ul>