---
id: '53504698'
title: 'break'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-22T11:00:11'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Control Flow Statements'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will learn about the TypeScript break statement to terminate a loop or a switch.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Using TypeScript break to terminate a loop</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The break statement allows you to terminate a loop and pass the program control over the next statement after the loop.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>You can use the break statement inside the for, while, and do...while statement.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following example shows how to use the break statement inside a for loop:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let products = [
    { name: 'phone', price: 700 },
    { name: 'tablet', price: 900 },
    { name: 'laptop', price: 1200 }
];

for (var i = 0; i &lt; products.length; i++) {
    if (products[i].price == 900)
        break;
}

// show the products
console.log(products[i]);</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Output:</p><blockquote><p>{ name: 'tablet', price: 900 }</p></blockquote><p>&nbsp;</p><p>How it works:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>First, initialize a list of products with name and price properties.</li><li>Then, search for the product whose price is 900 and terminate the loop once the product is found by using the break statement.</li><li>Finally, show the matching product to the console.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Using the break statement to break a switch</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p></p><p>The following example returns the discount of a specified product. It uses the break statement to break out of a switch:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let products = [
    { name: 'phone', price: 700 },
    { name: 'tablet', price: 900 },
    { name: 'laptop', price: 1200 }
];

let discount = 0;
let product = products[1];

switch (product.name) {
    case 'phone':
        discount = 5;
        break;
    case 'tablet':
        discount = 10;
        break;
    case 'laptop':
        discount = 15;
        break;
}

console.log(`There is a ${discount}% on ${product.name}.`);</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><blockquote><p>Note that besides a loop or a switch, the break statement can be used to break out of a labeled statement. However, it is rarely used in practice so that we don’t cover in this tutorial.</p></blockquote><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Summary</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Use break statement to terminate a loop or switch.</li></ul>