---
id: '57696176'
title: 'Type Annotations'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-15T14:59:14'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Basic Types'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will learn about type annotations in TypeScript.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>What is Type Annotation in TypeScript</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>TypeScript uses type annotations to specify explicit types for identifiers such as variables, functions, objects, etc.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>TypeScript uses type annotations to specify explicit types for identifiers such as variables, functions, objects, etc.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Once an identifier is annotated with a type, it can be used as that type only. If the identifier is used as a different type, the TypeScript compiler will issue an error.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Type annotations in variables and constants</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following syntax shows how to specify type annotations for variables and constants:</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">let variableName: type;
let variableName: type = value;
const constantName: type = value;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this syntax, the type annotation comes after the variable or constant name and is preceded by a colon (:).</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following example uses number annotation for a variable:</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">let counter: number;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>After this, you can only assign a number to the counter variable:</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">counter = 1;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>If you assign a string to the counter variable, you’ll get an error:</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">let counter: number;
counter = 'Hello'; // compile error </code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Error:</p><pre><code>Type '"Hello"' is not assignable to type 'number'.</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>You can both use a type annotation for a variable and initialize it in a single statement like this:</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">let counter: number = 1;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, we use the number annotation for the counter variable and initialize it to one.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following shows other examples of primitive type annotations:</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">let name: string = 'John';
let age: number = 25;
let active: boolean = true;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, the name variable gets the string type, the age variable gets the number type, and the active variable gets the boolean type.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Type annotation examples</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>Arrays</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>To annotate an array type you use a specific type followed by a square bracket : type[] :</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">let arrayName: type[];</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>For example, the following declares an array of strings:</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">let names: string[] = ['John', 'Jane', 'Peter', 'David', 'Mary'];</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>Objects</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>To specify a type for an object, you use the object type annotation. For example:</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">let person: {
  name: string;
  age: number;
};

person = {
  name: 'John',
  age: 25,
}; // valid</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, the person object only accepts an object that has two properties: name with the string type and age with the number type.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>Function arguments &amp; return types</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following shows a function annotation with parameter type annotation and return type annotation:</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">let greeting : (name: string) =&gt; string;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, you can assign any function that accepts a string and returns a string to the greeting variable:</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">greeting = function (name: string) {
    return `Hi ${name}`;
};</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following causes an error because the function that is assigned to the greeting variable doesn’t match its function type.</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">greeting = function () {
    console.log('Hello');
};</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Error:</p><pre><code>Type '() =&gt; void' is not assignable to type '(name: string) =&gt; string'. Type 'void' is not assignable to type 'string'.</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Summary</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Use type annotations with the syntax : [type] to explicitly specify a type for a variable, function, function return value, etc.</li></ul>