---
id: '60058114'
title: 'switch case'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-16T22:25:14'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Control Flow Statements'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will about the TypeScript switch...case statement.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Introduction to TypeScript switch case statement</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following shows the syntax of the switch...case statement:</p><pre><code class="typescript">switch ( expression ) {
   case value1:
       // statement 1
       break;
   case value2:
       // statement 2
       break;
   case valueN:
       // statement N
       break;
   default: 
       // 
       break;
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>How it works:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>First, the switch...case statement evaluates the expression.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Then, it searches for the first case clause whose expression evaluates to the same value as the value (value1, value2, …valueN).</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The switch...case statement will execute the statement in the first case clause whose value matches.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>If no matching case clause is found, the switch...case statement looks for the optional default clause. If the default clause is available, it executes the statement in the default clause.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The break statement that associates with each case clause ensures that the control breaks out of the switch...case statement once the statements in the case clause complete.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>If the matching case clause doesn’t have the break statement, the program execution continues at the next statement in the switch...case statement.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>By convention, the default clause is the last clause in the switch...case statement. However, it doesn’t need to be so.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>TypeScript switch case statement examples</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Let’s take some examples of using the switch...case statement.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>1) A simple TypeScript switch case example</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following example shows a simple switch...case example that shows a message based on the target id:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let targetId = 'btnDelete';

switch (targetId) {
    case 'btnUpdate':
        console.log('Update');
        break;
    case 'btnDelete':
        console.log('Delete');
        break;
    case 'btnNew':
        console.log('New');
        break;
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Output:</p><pre><code>Delete</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, the targetId is set to btnDelete.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The switch...case statement compares the targetId with a list of values.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Because the targetId matches the 'btnDelete' the statement in the corresponding case clause executes.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>2) Grouping case example</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>If you have a code that is shared by multiple cases, you can group them. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">// change the month and year
let month = 2,
    year = 2020;

let day = 0;
switch (month) {
    case 1:
    case 3:
    case 5:
    case 7:
    case 8:
    case 10:
    case 12:
        day = 31;
        break;
    case 4:
    case 6:
    case 9:
    case 11:
        day = 30;
        break;
    case 2:
        // leap year
        if (((year % 4 == 0) &amp;&amp;
            !(year % 100 == 0))
            || (year % 400 == 0))
            day = 29;
        else
            day = 28;
        break;
    default:
        throw Error('Invalid month');
}

console.log(`The month ${month} in ${year} has ${day} days`);</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Output:</p><pre><code>The month 2 in 2020 has 29 days</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>This example returns the days of a specific month and year.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>If the month is 1,3, 5, 7, 8, or 12, the number of days is 31. If the month is 4, 6, 9, or 11, the number of days is 30.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>If the month is 2 and the year is a leap year, it returns 29 days, otherwise, it returns 28 days.</p>