---
id: '61280327'
title: 'Rest Parameters'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-22T12:26:24'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Functions'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will learn about the TypeScript rest parameters and how to use them to represent an indefinite number of arguments as an array.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>A rest parameter allows a function to accept zero or more arguments of the specified type. In TypeScript, the rest parameters follow these rules:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>A function has only one rest parameter.</li><li>The rest parameter appear last in the parameter list.</li><li>The type of the rest parameter is an array type.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Rest parameters with a single type</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>To declare a rest parameter, you prefix the parameter name with three dots (…) and use the array type as the type annotation:</p><pre><code class="typescript">function fn(...rest: type[]) {
   //...
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following example shows how to use the rest parameter:</p><pre><code class="typescript">function getTotal(...numbers: number[]): number {
    let total = 0;
    numbers.forEach((num) =&gt; total += num);
    return total;
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, the getTotal() calculates the total of numbers passed into it.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Since the numbers parameter is a rest parameter, you can pass one or more numbers to calculate the total:</p><pre><code class="typescript">console.log(getTotal()); // 0
console.log(getTotal(10, 20)); // 30
console.log(getTotal(10, 20, 30)); // 60</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Rest parameters with multiple types</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>TypeScript allows you to handle rest parameters with multiple types using union types. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">function combine(...args: (number | string)[]): [number, string] {
  let total = 0;
  let str = '';
  args.forEach((arg) =&gt; {
    if (typeof arg === 'number') {
      total += arg;
    } else if (typeof arg === 'string') {
      str += arg;
    }
  });

  return [total, str];
}

const [total, str] = combine(3, 'Happy', 2, 1, ' New Year');

console.log({ total });
console.log({ str });</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Output:</p><blockquote><p>{ total: 6 }<br>{ str: 'Happy New Year' }</p></blockquote><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, we define a combine() function that takes a variable number of arguments using rest parameters which can be either numbers or strings:</p><pre><code class="typescript">...args: (number | string)[]</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The function does two things:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Sum up all the numbers</li><li>Concatenates all the strings.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Then, it returns a tuple containing the total sum of the numbers and the concatenated string.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Summary</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Use rest parameters to allow a function to accept a variable number of arguments with the same or different types.</li><li>Use ...args type[] syntax to define rest parameters with the same type.</li><li>Use ...args (type1 | type2 ) [] syntax to define rest parameters with different types.</li></ul>