---
id: '64263296'
title: 'Unknown Type'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-16T17:53:46'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Basic Types'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will learn about the TypeScript unknown type to enforce type checking of an unknown value.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Introduction to the TypeScript unknown type</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In TypeScript, the unknown type can hold a value that is not known upfront but requires type checking.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>To declare a variable of the unknown type, you use the following syntax:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let result: unknown;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Like the any type, you can assign any value to a variable of the unknown type. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let result: unknown;

result = 1;
result = 'hello';
result = false;
result = Symbol();
result = { name: 'John' };
result = [1, 2, 3];</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Unlike the any type, TypeScript checks the type before performing operations on it.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>For example, you cannot call a method or apply an operator on a unknown value. If you attempt to do so, the TypeScript compiler will issue an error:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let result: unknown;
result = [1,2,3];

const total = result.reduce((a: number, b:number ) =&gt; a + b, 0);
console.log(total);</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, the result variable has the type of unknown. We assign an array the result value, but its type is still unknown. Therefore, we cannot call the reduce() method of an array on it.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>To call the reduce() method on the result variable, you need to use the type assertion to explicitly tell the TypeScript compiler that the type of the result is array. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let result: unknown;
result = [1, 2, 3];

const total = (result as number[]).reduce((a: number, b: number) =&gt; a + b, 0);
console.log(total); // 6</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, we explicitly tell the TypeScript compiler that the type of the result is an array of numbers (result as number[]).</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Therefore, we can call the reduce() method on the result array without any issues.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Unknown vs Any type</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following table highlights the key differences between the unknown and any types:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><figure class="table"><table><thead><tr><th>Feature</th><th>any</th><th>unknown</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Type Safety</strong></td><td>No type-safety</td><td>Enforces type safety</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Operations</strong></td><td>Operations can be performed without checks</td><td>Operations can be performed without checks</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Use cases</strong></td><td>Useful for dynamic values but unsafe.</td><td>Useful for dynamic values and safe because it requires validation before use.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Type Checking</strong></td><td>TypeScript compiler does not perform a type checking on an any variable.</td><td>TypeScript compiler enforces a type checking on an unknown variable.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Common Scenarios</strong></td><td>Used for migrating JavaScript codebase to TypeScript.</td><td>Used when handling data from external sources (API calls, databases, ..) where type validation is necessary.</td></tr></tbody></table></figure><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>TypeScript unknown examples</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Let’s take some practical examples of using the Typescript unknown type.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>1) Handling external data</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>When receiving data from an external API, you can use the unknown type to enforce validation before processing it.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following example shows how to use the fetch method to call an API from the https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts endpoint:</p><pre><code class="typescript">const fetchData = async (url: string): Promise&lt;unknown&gt; =&gt; {
    const response = await fetch(url);
    return await response.json();
};

const showPosts = async () =&gt; {
    const url = 'https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts';
    try {
        const posts = await fetchData(url); // unknown type

        (
            posts as { userId: number; id: number; title: string; body: string }[]
        ).map((post) =&gt; console.log(post.title));
    } catch (err) {
        console.log(err);
    }
};

showPosts();</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>How it works.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>First, define a function fetchData that calls API from a URL and returns JSON data. Since the shape of the returned data is not known, the function returns a Promise&lt;unknown&gt; value:</p><pre><code class="typescript">const fetchData = async (url: string): Promise&lt;unknown&gt; =&gt; {
    const response = await fetch(url);
    return await response.json();
};</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Second, define the showPosts() function that uses the fetchData() function to call an API from the endpoint <a href="https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts:">https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts:</a></p><pre><code class="typescript">const showPosts = async () =&gt; {
    const url = 'https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts';
    try {
        const posts = await fetchData(url); // unknown type
        (
            posts as { userId: number; id: number; title: string; body: string }[]
        ).map((post) =&gt; console.log(post.title));
    } catch (err) {
        console.log(err);
    }
};</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, the posts variable has a type of unknown.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Before accessing its title property, we use type assertion to instruct the TypeScript compiler to treat it as an array of post objects:</p><pre><code class="typescript">posts as { userId: number; id: number; title: string; body: string }[]</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Third, call the showPosts() function:</p><pre><code class="typescript">showPosts();</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>2) Creating type-safe interfaces</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following example defines a function format that format a value before logging it to the console:</p><pre><code class="typescript">function format(value: unknown): void {
  switch (typeof value) {
    case 'string':
      console.log('String:', value.toUpperCase());
      break;
    case 'number':
      console.log('Number:', value.toFixed(2));
      break;
    default:
      console.log('Other types:', value);
  }
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, before accessing a method of the value, we validate its type to ensure that the operation is valid.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Summary</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>The unknown type is like any type but more restrictive.</li><li>Use the unknown type to handle data coming from external sources and requires validation before use.</li></ul>