---
id: '68375503'
title: 'Array Type'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-16T14:43:20'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Basic Types'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you’ll learn about the TypeScript array type and its basic operations.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Introduction to TypeScript array type</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>A TypeScript array is an ordered list of data. To declare an array that holds values of a specific type, you use the following syntax:</p><pre><code>let arrayName: type[];</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>For example, the following declares an array of strings:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let skills: string[] = [];</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>let skills: string[] = [];</p><pre><code class="typescript">skills[0] = "Problem Solving";
skills[1] = "Programming";</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>or use the push() method:</p><pre><code class="typescript">skills.push('Software Design');</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following declares a variable and assigns an array of strings to it:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let skills = ['Problem Sovling','Software Design','Programming'];</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, TypeScript infers the skills array as an array of strings. It is equivalent to the following:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let skills: string[];
skills = ['Problem Sovling','Software Design','Programming'];</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>After you define an array of a specific type, TypeScript will prevent you from adding incompatible values. For example, the following will cause an error:</p><pre><code class="typescript">skills.push(100);</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>… because we’re trying to add a number to the string array.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Error:</p><pre><code>Argument of type 'number' is not assignable to parameter of type 'string'.</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>When you extract an element from the array, TypeScript infers the type of the array element. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let skill = skills[0];
console.log(typeof(skill));</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Output:</p><pre><code>string </code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, we extract the first element of the skills array and assign it to the skill variable.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Since an element in a string array is a string, TypeScript infers the type of the skill variable to string as shown in the output.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>TypeScript array properties and methods</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>TypeScript arrays have the same properties and methods as JavaScript arrays. For example, the following uses the length property to get the number of elements in an array:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let series = [1, 2, 3];
console.log(series.length); // 3</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>You can use all the useful array methods such as forEach(), map(), reduce(), and filter(). For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let series = [1, 2, 3];
let doubleIt = series.map(e =&gt; e* 2);
console.log(doubleIt);</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Output:</p><pre><code>[ 2, 4, 6 ] </code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Storing values of mixed types</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following illustrates how to define an array that holds both strings and numbers:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let scores = ['Programming', 5, 'Software Design', 4]; </code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this case, TypeScript infers the scores array as an array of string | number. It’s equivalent to the following:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let scores : (string | number)[];
scores = ['Programming', 5, 'Software Design', 4]; </code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Summary</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>In TypeScript, an array is an ordered list of values.</li><li>Use the let arr: type[] syntax to declare an array of a specific type. Adding a value of a different type to the array will result in an error.</li><li>An array can store values of mixed types. Use the arr: (type1 | type2) [] syntax to declare an array of values with mixed types (type1, and type2)</li></ul>