---
id: '70261570'
title: 'Tuple Type'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-16T15:55:41'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Basic Types'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you’ll learn about the TypeScript Tuple type and its usage.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Introduction to TypeScript Tuple type</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>A tuple works like an array with some additional considerations:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>The number of elements in the tuple is fixed.</li><li>The types of elements are known, and need not be the same.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p>For example, you can use a tuple to represent a value as a pair of a string and a number:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let skill: [string, number];
skill = ['Programming', 5];</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The order of values in a tuple is important. If you change the order of values of the skill tuple to [5, "Programming"], you’ll get an error:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let skill: [string, number];
skill = [5, 'Programming'];</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Error:</p><pre><code>error TS2322: Type 'string' is not assignable to type 'number'.</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>For this reason, it’s a good practice to use tuples with data that are related to each other in a specific order.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>For example, you can use a tuple to define an RGB color that always comes in a three-number pattern:</p><pre><code class="typescript">(r,g,b)</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let color: [number, number, number] = [255, 0, 0];</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The color[0], color[1], and color[2] would be logically mapped to Red, Green and Blue color values.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Optional Tuple Elements</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Since TypeScript 3.0, a tuple can have optional elements specified using the question mark (?) postfix.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>For example, you can define an RGBA tuple with the optional alpha channel value:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let bgColor, headerColor: [number, number, number, number?];
bgColor = [0, 255, 255, 0.5];
headerColor = [0, 255, 255];</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><blockquote><p>Note that the RGBA defines colors using the red, green, blue, and alpha models. The alpha specifies the opacity of the color.</p></blockquote><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Summary</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>A tuple is an array with a fixed number of elements whose types are known.</li></ul>