---
id: '72601736'
title: 'Getting Started'
categories: 'Testing, Node.js'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-17T12:27:30'
bookTitle: 'Testing Node.js Application'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Introduction'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Vitest team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Adding Vitest to Your Project</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><pre><code>npm install -D vitest</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>It is recommended that you install a copy of vitest in your package.json, using one of the methods listed above. However, if you would prefer to run vitest directly, you can use npx vitest (the npx tool comes with npm and Node.js).</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The npx tool will execute the specified command. By default, npx will first check if the command exists in the local project's binaries. If it is not found there, npx will look in the system's $PATH and execute it if found. If the command is not found in either location, npx will install it in a temporary location prior to execution.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Writing Tests</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>As an example, we will write a simple test that verifies the output of a function that adds two numbers.</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">// sum.js
export function sum(a, b) {
  return a + b
}</code></pre><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">// sum.test.js
import { expect, test } from 'vitest'
import { sum } from './sum.js'

test('adds 1 + 2 to equal 3', () =&gt; {
  expect(sum(1, 2)).toBe(3)
})</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Next, in order to execute the test, add the following section to your package.json:</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">{
  "scripts": {
    "test": "vitest"
  }
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Finally, run npm run test, yarn test or pnpm test, depending on your package manager, and Vitest will print this message:</p><pre><code>✓ sum.test.js (1)
  ✓ adds 1 + 2 to equal 3

Test Files  1 passed (1)
     Tests  1 passed (1)
  Start at  02:15:44
  Duration  311ms</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Configuring Vitest</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>While Vitest can often work out-of-the-box with your existing vite.config.js (or vite.config.ts), you can create a vitest.config.js (or vitest.config.ts) for specific testing configurations or add a test property to your vite.config.js.</p><pre><code class="js javascript js-code">/// &lt;reference types="vitest" /&gt;
import { defineConfig } from 'vite';

export default defineConfig({
  test: {
    globals: true, // Makes test utilities like 'describe', 'it', 'expect' globally available
    environment: 'jsdom', // For testing DOM-related code (e.g., React components)
    // Other Vitest-specific options can go here
  },
});</code></pre>