---
id: '79444499'
title: 'Generic Interfaces'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-23T10:35:47'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Generics'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will learn how to develop TypeScript generic interfaces to create an interface that can work with different types while maintaining type safety.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Introduction to TypeScript generic interfaces</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Like classes, interfaces can also be generic. A generic interface allows you to create an interface that can work with different types while maintaining type safety.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>A generic interface has a generic type parameter list in angle brackets &lt;&gt; following the name of the interface:</p><pre><code class="typescript">interface interfaceName&lt;T&gt; {
    // ...
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>This makes the type parameter T visible to all members of the interface.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The type parameter list can have one or multiple types. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">interface interfaceName&lt;U,V&gt; {
    // ...
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>TypeScript generic interface examples</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Let’s take some examples of declaring generic interfaces.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>1) Generic interfaces that describe object properties</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following shows how to declare a generic interface that consists of two members key and value with the corresponding types K and V:</p><pre><code class="typescript">interface Pair&lt;K, V&gt; {
    key: K;
    value: V;
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Now, you can use the Pair interface to define any key/value pair with any type. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let month: Pair&lt;string, number&gt; = {
    key: 'Jan',
    value: 1
};

console.log(month);</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, we declare a month key-value pair whose key is a string and the value is a number.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>2) Generic interfaces that describe methods</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following declares a generic interface with two methods add() and remove():</p><pre><code class="typescript">interface Collection&lt;T&gt; {
    add(o: T): void;
    remove(o: T): void;
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>And this List&lt;T&gt; generic class implements the Collection&lt;T&gt; generic interface:</p><pre><code class="typescript">class List&lt;T&gt; implements Collection&lt;T&gt;{
    private items: T[] = [];

    add(o: T): void {
        this.items.push(o);
    }
    remove(o: T): void {
        let index = this.items.indexOf(o);
        if (index &gt; -1) {
            this.items.splice(index, 1);
        }
    }
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>From the List&lt;T&gt; class, you can create a list of values of various types e.g., numbers, or strings.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>For example, the following shows how to use the List&lt;T&gt; generic class to create a list of numbers:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let list = new List&lt;number&gt;();

for (let i = 0; i &lt; 10; i++) {
    list.add(i);
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>3) Generic interfaces that describe index types</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following declares an interface that describes an index type:</p><pre><code class="typescript">interface Options&lt;T&gt; {
    [name: string]: T
}

let inputOptions: Options&lt;boolean&gt; = {
    'disabled': false,
    'visible': true
};</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this tutorial, you have learned about the TypeScript generic interfaces.</p>