---
id: '83859705'
title: 'Type Assertions'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-22T17:53:46'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Advanced Types'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will learn about type assertions in TypeScript, which allows you to assign a new type to a value.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Type assertions instruct the TypeScript compiler to treat a value as a specified type. In TypeScript, you can use the as keyword or &lt;&gt; operator for type assertions.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Type assertions using the as keyword</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following selects the first input element on an HTML document using the querySelector() method:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let el = document.querySelector('input["type="text"]');</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Since the returned type of the document.querySelector() method is the Element type, the following code causes a compile-time error:</p><pre><code class="typescript">console.log(el.value);</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Error:</p><pre><code>Property 'value' does not exist on type 'Element'.</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The reason is that the value property doesn’t exist in the Element type. It only exists on the HTMLInputElement type.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>To resolve this, you can instruct the TypeScript compiler to treat the type of the el element as HTMLInputElement by using the as keyword like this:</p><pre><code class="typescript">const el = document.querySelector('input[type="text"]');
const input = el as HTMLInputElement;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Now, the input variable has the type HTMLInputElement. So accessing its value property won’t cause any error. The following code works:</p><pre><code class="typescript">console.log(input.value);</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Another way to assign the type HTMLInputElement to an Element object is when you access the property as follows:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let enteredText = (el as HTMLInputElement).value;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Note that the HTMLInputElement type extends the HTMLElement type that extends to the Element type.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The syntax for type assertion of a variable from typeA to typeB is as follows:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let a: typeA;
let b = a as typeB;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Type assertion using the &lt;&gt; operator</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Besides the as keyword, you can use the &lt;&gt; operator to perform a type assertion. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let input = &lt;HTMLInputElement&gt;document.querySelector('input[type="text"]');

console.log(input.value);</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The syntax for type assertion using the &lt;&gt; operator is as follows:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let a: typeA;
let b = &lt;typeB&gt;a</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Type assertion result</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>If a type assertion fails, different kinds of errors will occur depending on how you use type assertion and actual runtime types.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>1) Compile-time errors</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>When you try to perform a type assertion between incompatible types, the TypeScript compiler may give you an error or warning. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let price = '9.99';
let netPrice = price as number; // error</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, we attempt to assign the number type to a string, the TypeScript compiler issues the following compile-time error:</p><pre><code> Conversion of type 'string' to type 'number' may be a mistake because neither type sufficiently overlaps with the other. If this was intentional, convert the expression to 'unknown' first.</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>2) Runtime errors</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>When you perform a type assertion of an object to a type that doesn’t match its structure and attempt to access a property that doesn’t exist, you’ll get a runtime error. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let el = document.querySelector('#name');
let input = el as HTMLInputElement;
console.log(input.value.length);</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, if the element with id #name is not an input element, the input.value will be undefined at runtime. Hence, accessing the length property of the value will cause a runtime error:</p><pre><code>TypeError: Cannot read properties of undefined (reading 'length')</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:19px;"><strong>3) Unexpected behaviors</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>If a type assertion is incorrect, you may not get a compile-time or runtime error but might experience unexpected behaviors later in your code. This can make debugging challenging because the error might not occur at the point of the type assertion.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Summary</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Type assertion allows you to assign a new type to a value.</li><li>Use the as keyword or &lt;&gt; operator to perform a type assertion.</li></ul>