---
id: '87207476'
title: 'Abstract Classes'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-22T15:00:45'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Classes'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will learn about TypeScript abstract classes and how to use them to define common behaviors for derived classes.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Introduction to TypeScript abstract classes</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>An abstract class is typically used to define common behaviors for derived classes to extend. Unlike a regular class, an abstract class cannot be instantiated directly.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>To declare an abstract class, you use the abstract keyword:</p><pre><code class="typescript">abstract class Employee {
    //...
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Typically, an abstract class contains one or more abstract methods.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>An abstract method does not contain implementation. It only defines the signature of the method without including the method body. An abstract method must be implemented in the derived class.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following shows the Employee abstract class that has the getSalary() abstract method:</p><pre><code class="typescript">abstract class Employee {
  constructor(private firstName: string, private lastName: string) {}
  abstract getSalary(): number;
  get fullName(): string {
    return `${this.firstName} ${this.lastName}`;
  }
  compensationStatement(): string {
    return `${this.fullName} makes ${this.getSalary()} a month.`;
  }
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In the Employee class:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>The constructor declares the firstName and lastName properties.</li><li>The getSalary() method is an abstract method. The derived class will implement the logic based on the type of employee.</li><li>The getFullName() and compensationStatement() methods contain detailed implementation. Note that the compensationStatement() method calls the getSalary() method.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Because the Employee class is abstract, you cannot create a new object from it. The following statement causes an error:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let employee = new Employee('John','Doe');</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Error:</p><pre><code>error TS2511: Cannot create an instance of an abstract class.</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following FullTimeEmployee class inherits from the Employee class:</p><pre><code class="typescript">class FullTimeEmployee extends Employee {
    constructor(firstName: string, lastName: string, private salary: number) {
        super(firstName, lastName);
    }
    getSalary(): number {
        return this.salary;
    }
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this FullTimeEmployee class, the salary is set in the constructor. Because the getSalary() is an abstract method of the Employee class, the FullTimeEmployee class needs to implement this method. In this example, it just returns the salary without any calculation.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following shows the Contractor class that also inherits from the Employee class:</p><pre><code class="typescript">class Contractor extends Employee {
  constructor(
    firstName: string,
    lastName: string,
    private rate: number,
    private hours: number
  ) {
    super(firstName, lastName);
  }
  getSalary(): number {
    return this.rate * this.hours;
  }
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In the Contractor class, the constructor initializes the rate and hours. The getSalary() method calculates the salary by multiplying the rate by the hours.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The following first creates a FullTimeEmployee object and a Contractor object and then shows the compensation statements to the console:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let john = new FullTimeEmployee('John', 'Doe', 12000);
let jane = new Contractor('Jane', 'Doe', 100, 160);

console.log(john.compensationStatement());
console.log(jane.compensationStatement());</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Output:</p><blockquote><p>John Doe makes 12000 a month.<br>Jane Doe makes 16000 a month.</p></blockquote><p>&nbsp;</p><p>It’s a good practice to use abstract classes when you want to share code among some related classes.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Summary</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Abstract classes cannot be instantiated.</li><li>An Abstract class has at least one abstract method.</li><li>To use an abstract class, you need to inherit it and provide the implementation for the abstract methods.</li></ul>