---
id: '92987806'
title: 'Function Overloading'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-22T12:43:03'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Functions'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will learn about function overloading in TypeScript.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Introduction to TypeScript function overloading</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Function overloading allows you to define multiple signatures for a single function and provide one implementation that handles all defined signatures.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Function overloading enables a function to handle different types of arguments. Additionally, the TypeScript compiler uses the function signatures to perform compile-time type checking to ensure type safety.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><blockquote><p>Note that TypeScript function overloading is unlike the function overloading supported by other statically typed languages such as Java.</p></blockquote><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>TypeScript function overloading example</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Let’s start with a simple function that returns the sum of two numbers or strings.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>First, define overloaded signatures:</p><pre><code class="typescript">function add(a: number, b: number): number;
function add(a: string, b: string): string;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Second, provide the implementation for the add function:</p><pre><code class="typescript">function add(a: any, b: any): any {
    if (typeof a === 'number' &amp;&amp; typeof b === 'number') {
        return a + b;
    } else if (typeof a === 'string' &amp;&amp; typeof b === 'string') {
        return a + b;
    }
    throw new Error('Invalid arguments');
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Third, use the overloaded function:</p><pre><code class="typescript">console.log(add(10, 20));  // 30
console.log(add('Hello, ', 'world!'));  // 'Hello, world!</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Function overloading with optional parameters</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>When you overload a function, the number of required parameters must be the same. If an overload has more parameters than the other, you need to make the additional parameters optional. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">function sum(a: number, b: number): number;
function sum(a: number, b: number, c: number): number;
function sum(a: number, b: number, c?: number): number {
    if (c) return a + b + c;
    return a + b;
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The sum() function accepts either two or three numbers. The third parameter is optional. If you don’t make it optional, you will get an error.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Method overloading</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>When a function is a property of a class, it is called a method. TypeScript also supports method overloading. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">class Counter {
  private current = 0;
  count(): number;
  count(target: number): number[];
  count(target?: number): number | number[] {
    if (target) {
      let values: number[] = [];
      for (let start = this.current; start &lt;= target; start++) {
        values.push(start);
      }
      // set current to target
      this.current = target;
      return values;
    }
    return ++this.current;
  }
}</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The count() function can return a number or an array depending on the number of arguments that you pass into it:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let counter = new Counter();

console.log(counter.count()); // return a number
console.log(counter.count(5)); // return an array</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Output:</p><blockquote><p>1<br>[ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 ]</p></blockquote><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Summary</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Use function overloading to define multiple signatures for a single function to ensure type safety.</li></ul>