---
id: '96399188'
title: 'Any Type'
categories: 'TypeScript'
thumb: ''
date: '2025-09-16T17:07:53'
bookTitle: 'TypeScript for ES6 Developer'
bookThumb: ''
bookChapter: 'Basic Types'
videos: ''
---
<p>From Microsoft team</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>Summary</strong>: in this tutorial, you will learn about the TypeScript any type and how to use it properly in your code.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Introduction to TypeScript any type</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Sometimes, you may need to store a value in a variable. But you don’t know its type when writing the program. And the unknown value may come from a third-party API or user input.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this case, you want to opt out of the type checking and allow the value to pass through the compile-time check.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let result: any;

result = 1;
console.log(result);

result = 'Hello';
console.log(result);

result = [1, 2, 3];
const total = result.reduce((a: number, b: number) =&gt; a + b, 0);
console.log(total);</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>First, declare the variable result with the type any.</li><li>Second, assign number 1 to the result and display its value to the console.</li><li>Third, assign the string literal 'Hello' to the result and show its value to the console.</li><li>Finally, assign an array of numbers to the result variable, calculate the total using the reduce() method, and log the total to the console.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Let’s take another typical example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">// json may come from a third-party API
const json = `{"latitude": 10.11, "longitude":12.12}`;

// parse JSON to find location
const currentLocation = JSON.parse(json);
console.log(currentLocation);
</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Output:</p><pre><code>{ latitude: 10.11, longitude: 12.12 }</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, TypeScript infers the value of the currentLocation variable as any. We assign an object returned by the JSON.parse() function the currentLocation variable.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>However, when we access the non-existing property (x) of the currentLocation variable, TypeScript does not carry any checks.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>This is working fine and shows an undefined value in the console:</p><pre><code class="typescript">console.log(currentLocation.x); // undefined</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Output:</p><pre><code>undefined</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The TypeScript compiler doesn’t complain or issue any errors.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The any type provides you with a way to work with the existing JavaScript codebase. It allows you to gradually opt in and opt out of type-checking during compilation. Therefore, you can use the any type for migrating a JavaScript project over to TypeScript.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>TypeScript any: implicit typing</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>If you declare a variable without specifying a type, TypeScript assumes that you use the any type. This feature is called type inference. TypeScript guesses the type of the variable. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let result;</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, TypeScript infers the type for you. This practice is called implicit typing.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><blockquote><p>Note that to disable implicit typing to the any type, you change the noImplicitAny option in the tsconfig.json file to true. You’ll learn more about the tsconfig.json in the later tutorial.</p></blockquote><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>TypeScript any vs. object</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>If you declare a variable with the object type, you can also assign any value to it. However, you cannot call a method on it even if the method exists. For example:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let result: any;
result = 10.123;
console.log(result.toFixed());
result.willExist(); //</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>In this example, the TypeScript compiler doesn’t issue any warning even the willExist() method doesn’t exist at compile time because the willExist() method might be available at runtime.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>If you run the code, you’ll see the following error message on the console window:</p><pre><code class="typescript">TypeError: result.willExist is not a function</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>However, if you change the type of the result variable to object, the TypeScript compiler will issue two errors:</p><pre><code class="typescript">let result: object;
result = 10.123;
result.toFixed();</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Errors:</p><pre><code>app.ts:2:1 - error TS2322: Type 'number' is not assignable to type 'object'.

2 result = 10.123;
  ~~~~~~

app.ts:3:8 - error TS2339: Property 'toFixed' does not exist on type 'object'.

3 result.toFixed();
         ~~~~~~~

Found 2 errors in the same file, starting at: app.ts:2</code></pre><p>&nbsp;</p><p><span style="font-size:21px;"><strong>Summary</strong></span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>The TypeScript any type allows you to store a value of any type. It instructs the compiler to skip type-checking.</li><li>Use the any type to store a value that you don’t know its type at the compile-time or when you migrate a JavaScript project over to a TypeScript project.</li></ul>